README.md, before:

# story-GPT
A simple GPT model trained from scratch on [tiny stories dataset](https://huggingface.co/roneneldan/TinyStories-33M/tree/main). It took around 5 hours to train the model for 50 epochs on a P100.

First of all clone the repo and run ```pip install -r requirements.txt``` so that all the dependencies are installed.

Model checkpoints can be found here: [model checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/Sartc/storyGPT/tree/main) (both .ckpts and .safetensors) are uploaded there. Save these weights in a new folder and name that folder as checkpoints. Now run ```python3 inference.py``` for inferencing.
SS of model's response (via terminal on CPU):

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/feb3f6fe-2813-4150-802b-8295ff814a61)

Use ```python3 app.py``` to run it via gradio UI. 
SS of model's response (via gradio UI on CPU):

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95dde6bd-88f5-4991-a517-d651e6c208ef)

# Future Work/Things to do:

~Upload model checkpoints. Done.~

Implementation of a metric to evaluate the outputs (perplexity) and set a proper validation dataset.

~Implement a proper directory structure for inference, so that model.generate() can be used easily. Done.~

Replace the use of tiktoken in this code to make it completely independent by probably using these as references https://github.com/karpathy/minbpe, https://sebastianraschka.com/blog/2025/bpe-from-scratch.html.

~A simple gradio UI/host on huggingface space (whichever is more convinent).~

I've a couple of more things in my mind to improve this. Will be adding them in the future scope of work for this project if it is feasible to work on those (like dockerization and jit compilation to improve inference).

# References:

[Kaggle notebook by Tanay Mehta](https://www.kaggle.com/code/heyytanay/gpt-from-scratch-using-lightning-and-lance/notebook)

[Build LLMs from scratch book/github](https://github.com/rasbt/LLMs-from-scratch)

Commit message:

hf spaces setup for live demo

README.md, after:

# story-GPT
A simple GPT model trained from scratch on [tiny stories dataset](https://huggingface.co/roneneldan/TinyStories-33M/tree/main). It took around 5 hours to train the model for 50 epochs on a P100. You can it here: [storyGPT huggingface spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces/Sartc/storyGPT)

First of all clone the repo and run ```pip install -r requirements.txt``` so that all the dependencies are installed.

Model checkpoints can be found here: [model checkpoints](https://huggingface.co/Sartc/storyGPT/tree/main) (both .ckpts and .safetensors) are uploaded there. Save these weights in a new folder and name that folder as checkpoints. Now run ```python3 inference.py``` for inferencing.
SS of model's response (via terminal on CPU):

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/feb3f6fe-2813-4150-802b-8295ff814a61)

Use ```python3 app.py``` to run it via gradio UI. 
SS of model's response (via gradio UI on CPU):

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95dde6bd-88f5-4991-a517-d651e6c208ef)

# Future Work/Things to do:

~Upload model checkpoints. Done.~

Implementation of a metric to evaluate the outputs (perplexity) and set a proper validation dataset.

~Implement a proper directory structure for inference, so that model.generate() can be used easily. Done.~

Replace the use of tiktoken in this code to make it completely independent by probably using these as references https://github.com/karpathy/minbpe, https://sebastianraschka.com/blog/2025/bpe-from-scratch.html.

~A simple gradio UI/host on huggingface space (whichever is more convinent).~

I've a couple of more things in my mind to improve this. Will be adding them in the future scope of work for this project if it is feasible to work on those (like dockerization and jit compilation to improve inference).

# References:

[Kaggle notebook by Tanay Mehta](https://www.kaggle.com/code/heyytanay/gpt-from-scratch-using-lightning-and-lance/notebook)

[Build LLMs from scratch book/github](https://github.com/rasbt/LLMs-from-scratch)
